16 captures
02 Jul 2015 - 25 Jan 2025
Jun
JUL
Aug
02
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Alexa Crawls
Starting in 1996,
Alexa Internet
has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the
Wayback Machine
after an embargo period.
Collection:
Alexa Crawls
Starting in 1996,
Alexa Internet
has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the
Wayback Machine
after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150702200529/http://www.philstar.com:80/headlines/2015/07/02/1472361/main-opposition-party-una-launched
Skip to main content
Main menu
The Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
philstar.com
Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community
Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Fri | 07/03/2015 03:53am |
Forex: $1:45.155
Search form
Search
Follow Us:
Follow @PhilstarNews
Secondary menu
Home
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
Secondary sub-menu
#2016polls
Disputed Seas
Pork Barrel Scam
Bill Tracker
Election 2016
Earthquake Reports
Headlines Skinning Left, pagematch: , sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Main opposition party UNA launched
By Helen Flores
(The Philippine Star)
|
Updated July 2, 2015 - 12:00am
Supporters of Vice President Jejomar Binay listen to his speech during the launching of the United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) as the main opposition party in the 2016 general elections at the Makati Coliseum yesterday. Insets show Binay with his wife Elenita (right) and Sarangani Rep. Manny Pacquiao with former Laguna Gov. ER Ejercito (left) during an oath-taking ceremony.
Ernie Peñaredondo
MANILA, Philippines - The United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) was launched yesterday as the main opposition party as its chairman, Vice President Jejomar Binay, continued his tirade against the Aquino government.
During the launching at the jam-packed Makati Coliseum, Binay called the Aquino administration “lazy” for its failure to uplift the lives of Filipinos these past five years.
Binay family members and other political personalities attended the event.
Enumerating the areas where the present administration failed in its job, Binay said, “For the past five years, many are still jobless, hungry, can’t afford medication. Families can’t send their children to school. Crime and illegal drugs are widespread in communities, and poverty incidence remains high.”
He also hit the government for its failure to address the problems of the Metro Rail Transit (MRT) and absolving officials responsible for the death of the 44 members of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force in the Jan. 25 Mamasapano encounter.
“Because of the anomalies and extortion in the MRT, the service is poor. of the long queues and jam-packed trains, you will enter the train newly bathed and get off sweaty. The prayer of more than half a million riders every day is that no glitches will happen in the running train coffin,” he said in Filipino.
Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
“The question of the Filipino people is, where is the government?”
It was the question Binay asked at least three times throughout his speech, reciting a litany of failures of the administration.
The Vice President presented UNA’s platform, which, he said, is anchored on three programs – social inclusion/improvement of basic services, economic dynamism and effective and caring governance.
Binay said UNA is the total opposite of the present administration and a welcome alternative for Filipinos repeatedly let down by the Aquino government.
“UNA is not an organization of turtle-paced (usad pagong) and indecisive (teka-teka) in facing the nation’s problems. Not a neophyte who still needs to study how to run the country,” he said.
He said UNA seeks to provide free basic education and subsidized college education as well as improved medical services for all Filipinos.
Binay started his public criticism of the administration immediately after he resigned from the Cabinet on June 22.
Prior to his speech, Binay, along with boxing champ and Sarangani Rep. Manny Pacquiao, gamely sang with a GMA-7talent Rey Valera’s hit “Kahit maputi na ang buhok ko.”
Binay was joined by his wife Elenita and children Sen. Nancy Binay, Makati Rep. Abigail Binay and his son Makati Mayor Junjun Binay, who was suspended by the ombudsman over the alleged overpricing of the Makati Science High School building.
Former President and Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada’s son, Sen. JV Ejercito, and nephew former Laguna governor ER Ejercito attended the launch.
UNA officials
Aside from Binay, the other national officials of UNA who were sworn in yesterday were Navotas Rep. Tobias Tiangco (president), Sen. Gringo Honasan (vice president), lawyer JV Bautista (secretary-general) and former finance secretary Margarito Teves.
Estrada did not attend the launch.
But UNA officials denied this was an indication that the former leader would no longer support Binay’s presidential bid next year.
UNA spokesman Mon Ilagan said the former president had important business to attend to, noting yesterday’s event was the launching of UNA as a political party and not as a coalition.
“They are friends. The VP always understands because in the end they will be together for public interest,” Ilagan said.
“I don’t think President Erap will abandon Vice President Jejomar Binay,” he said.
UNA was formed as a coalition between Estrada’s Pwersa ng Masang Pilipino (PMP) party and Binay’s Partido Demokratiko Pilipino-Laban ng Bayan (PDP-Laban) party in 2013.
It was led by its so-called “Three Kings” composed of Estrada, Binay, and Sen. Juan Ponce Enrile, now detained for his alleged involvement in the pork barrel scam.
Pacquiao, GMA allies
Aside from Pacquiao, the launching was attended by various personalities, including allies of former President and now Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
They were former Zambales Rep. Mitos Magsaysay who is reportedly eyeing a Senate seat under UNA, former Cebu governor Gwen Garcia, former Candaba, Pampanga mayor Jerry Pelayo, Buhay partylist Rep. Lito Atienza and former Quezon Rep. Danilo Suarez, among others.
Teves, in an interview with reporters, said he considers Binay a friend since the term of the late President Corazon Aquino when he was the president of the Landbank of the Philippines.
‘Noy’s gov’t stands on its record’
Meanwhile, Presidential Communications Operations Office Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr. denied Binay’s tirades.
“The Aquino administration stands on its record of having restored the pride and dignity of the Filipino nation. On a platform of good governance, we have expanded the coverage of social protection and laid the foundations for inclusive growth.
“We trust in our people’s sense of fairness and capacity for discernment in choosing future leaders who will continue the reforms and sustain the long term transformation of Philippine society and polity,” Coloma said.
With Aurea Calica
Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Click here to join the discussion
Follow Us:
Follow @PhilstarNews
More Headlines
Bongbong seeks inquiry on power plant shutdowns
Petilla turns over DOE portfolio today
Purisima, 9 others removed from PNP roster
Lawyer to file lawsuits vs Noy
36 dead, 127 rescued in Ormoc sea mishap
Sereno refuses to answer Jardeleza tirade
US warns of possible war with emerging power
Erap still has huge political influence – Palace
Junjun: We didn’t start melee
Bankers, financial analysts want Poe to be next president
Sections
Home
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
Feedback
View the discussion thread.
LATEST STORIES
TRENDING
Russia dissatisfied with MH17 report by Dutch Safety Board
July 3, 2015 - 3:36am
Southeast Asia to set up fund to help boat people
July 3, 2015 - 2:47am
Murray coasts to straight-set win over Haase at Wimbledon
July 2, 2015 - 11:08pm
Murray coasts to straight-set win over Haase at Wimbledon
July 2, 2015 - 11:08pm
Gulf states reach $18.7B settlement with BP over oil spill
July 2, 2015 - 10:22pm
View more »
Headines ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Healines Skinning Right, pagematch: , sectionmatch: 1
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
Subscribe to Newspaper
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Member Agreement
Copyright Notice
6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
For advertising concerns: email
advertising@philstar.com
For marketing concerns: email
marketing@philstar.com
the philippine star
|
pilipino star ngayon
|
the freeman
|
pang-masa
|
banat
Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
