By CNN Philippines Staff

Updated 14:48 PM PHT Wed, October 28, 2015

Rodrigo "Rody" Duterte and Martin Diño

Metro Manila (CNN Philippines)
— PDP-Laban has made it official that Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte will substitute as the party's presidential bet if aspirant Martin Diño withdraws or is disqualified by the Commission of Elections (Comelec) from the 2016 race.

Former South Cotabato Gov. Mike Sueno, PDP-Laban national chairman, read out the party's resolution on Tuesday (October 27).

"Wherefore, be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved to substitute Martin Diño in case he withdraws from the presidential race with Mayor Rodrigo Roa Duterte," Sueno read.

Also read: Duterte's children to back father's possible presidential run

The unanimously-passed resolution said Duterte "must dutifully abide by the decision" to ensure the party’s victory.

The party considers Duterte its “strongest presidential hopeful.”

Sueno confirmed they had made Duterte aware of the resolution and were waiting for his response. In an interview with CNN Philippines'
News.PH
last October 21, Duterte confirmed he would follow the party's decision.

Duterte: I am willing to consider and to listen to them. I want what is best for the Party and the Filipino people.
https://t.co/CaczwF9CtH
— CNN Philippines (@cnnphilippines)
October 21, 2015

Duterte: I am willing to consider and to listen to them. I want what is best for the Party and the Filipino people.
https://t.co/CaczwF9CtH

Related: Duterte: It's up to PDP-Laban to substitute me as standard bearer

Some discrepancies in Diño's certificate of candidacy (COC) were seen, as it seemed to be a template to run for mayor despite the heading indicating "COC for president."

JV Hinlo, interim PDP-Laban leader in Western Visayas, said there is nothing to correct because the Certificate of Nomination of Acceptance was attached, making the substitution valid.

Hinlo added that, if the COC  would have issues, the certificate of nomination would allow for substitution.

Comelec's deadline for substitution of candidates is on December 10.

Related: Comelec: Election substitution depends on party bylaws

Hinlo said that from what he knew, Comelec had assured Diño it was a clerical error.

Besides the support of PDP-Laban, he said Diño had the backing of the Volunteers Against Crime and Corruption (VACC), of which he is chairman.

CNN Philippines' Anna Estanislao contributed to this report.
