14 captures
28 Sep 2015 - 07 Mar 2023
Aug
SEP
Oct
28
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Internet Archive
These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to
fix all broken links on the web
. 

Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection:
GDELT
A daily crawl of more than 200,000 home pages of news sites, including the pages linked from those home pages. Site list provided by
The GDELT Project
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150928081946/http://www.sunstar.com.ph/manila/local-news/2015/09/22/honasan-denies-tandem-binay-2016-polls-431698
Skip to main content
Home
Local News
Business
Opinion
Sports
Feature
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Archive
Home
/
Manila
/
Local News
/
Honasan denies tandem with Binay in 2016 polls
Honasan denies tandem with Binay in 2016 polls
Time to read
1 minute
Share
Print
a-
a+
Read so far
Honasan denies tandem with Binay in 2016 polls
Tuesday, September 22, 2015
By
Ruth Abbey Gita
Senator Gregorio Honasan II (Photo by Ruth Abbey Gita/Sunnex)
(UPDATED)
SENATOR Gregorio Honasan said there is no truth to rumors that he will be Vice President Jejomar Binay's running mate in the 2016 elections.
Binay, who is running for president under the United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) coalition, said earlier that he is considering Honasan or Senator Ferdinand Marcos Jr. to be his running mate in the polls.
Honasan said he is not aspiring to run for higher office but he promised to support Binay's campaign starting February.
(Video by Ruth Abbey Gita/Sunnex)
"I have not considered it (being the Vice President's running-mate), seriously," Honasan, vice president of UNA, told reporters.
"I am now the vice president of UNA so anything I do or say must add value to the presidential bid of the Vice President… I'll just help in his campaign," he added.
Asked to comment on the possible Binay-Marcos tandem, Honasan said, "Senator Bongbong as (the Vice President's) running-mate will project unity. Yes, perhaps, that would be a formidable team."
Marcos said earlier that he was still contemplating whether he would seek for higher post next year.
In the search of Binay's running mate in 2016, UNA's selection committee has narrowed the list down to three candidates.
Binay refused to reveal who made it in the initial list because "others are still hoping they are being considered."
He told radio station dzXL on Tuesday that he will publicly disclose his vice presidential choice in the coming days.
Binay dominated the past surveys but ranked third in the latest Social Weather Stations (SWS) survey as voter preference for Senator Grace Poe and Local Government Secretary Manuel Roxas II increased.
Poe's ally described that latest SWS survey as "misleading" to voters.
Valenzuela City Mayor Rex Gatchalian, spokesperson of the Nationalist People's Coalition (NPC), questioned the methodology used by the SWS, which showed Roxas trailing only by eight points behind Poe.
Gatchalian said that in the methodology used by the survey firm, respondents were asked to pick three choices for a one-on-one match.
"I guess, we have to keep on asking SWS what was the motive or why? Number two it is also worthy to point out that Senator Grace is already four points away from breaching the majority mark she's 47 (percent) so meaning she is four points away and its 51 already so harping out," said Gatchalian.
Latest figures show Roxas now at second place with 39 percent, an 18 percent jump from his 21 percent voter preference last June.
Poe remains at first place with 47 percent while Binay slides to third although his numbers remain unchanged at 35 percent.
Gatchalian said he was not criticizing the SWS but he wants more clarification on why the firm used the methodology.
Akbayan Party-list Representative Ibarry Gutierrez and Yacap Party-list Representative Carol Jane Lopez defended the SWS methodology, saying it was the same method used in the past four surveys.
"It may be a pick three but that has always been the methodology used by SWS the past 4 surveys think. So bottom line here is that Grace Poe has plateau, Binay going down, and Mar has the upward momentum," said Lopez.
The filing of COCs for the May 2016 elections is on October 12 to 16.
(With CVB/Sunnex)
DISCLAIMER:
Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.
Forum rules:
Do not use obscenity.  Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic.  Do not veer away from the discussion.  Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
More from Manila Local News
'SET decision can't be used to block Poe's candidacy'
Typhoon Jenny leaves 2 missing
DOH: No new strain in Cavite dengue outbreak
Poe leads latest Pulse Asia poll
Amended Fisheries Code IRR inked
PH supports UN pledge to end extreme poverty by 2030
‘Jenny’ maintains course, to exit Tuesday
‘Special treatment’ for Reyes brothers under probe
Comelec looking at holding debates for local candidates
Government to investigate militia forces linked to killings
Most Commented
Popular
Yael Yuzon on Karylle, Vice Ganda kiss: 'All in the name of fun'
Entertainment
Duterte asks for one final soul search
Local News
Dengue claims 2 kids in Cebu
Local News
Follow us
Region
Bacolod
Baguio
Cagayan de Oro
Cebu
Davao
Dumaguete
Iloilo
Manila
Pampanga
Pangasinan
Tacloban
Zamboanga
Sections
Local News
Business
Opinion
Sports
Lifestyle
Feature
Entertainment
All rights reserved. Sun.Star Publishing, Inc.
Home
Letter to the Editor
Public & Standards Editor
Advertise with us
About Us
Contact Us
Sitemap
