Open navigation
Philippine elections
RAPPLER
Close menu
Latest news
Video
Communities
Philippines
Investigative
Inside Track
Fact Check
People
Voices
Business
Technology and Platforms
Environment
Weather
Science
World
BrandRap
Special coverages
Rappler+ Exclusives
Subscribe to Newsletters
RappLearn
MovePH
Movements & Partners
Bulletin Board
Topics
Rai chatbot
About Rappler
SEE ALL VIDEOS
Watch NOW | Live
Top 5 News Today
Top 5 News This Week
Rappler Recap
Rappler Talk
Rappler Live Jam
Documentaries
Video explainers
In The Public Square
Hold The Line
Hindi Ito Marites
World View
Order In The Court
The Explainer
Sex and Sensibilities
Be The Good
Homestretch
Rappler Presents HIPE Stories
The Green Report
SEE ALL PHILIPPINES
Philippine News
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Overseas Filipinos
SEE ALL INVESTIGATIVE
Data and Documents
Explainers
Fast Facts
In-depth
Podcasts and Videos
SEE ALL PEOPLE
Actors
Artists
Athletes
Crimes
Human Interest
Newsmakers
Obituary
Profiles
SEE ALL VOICES
Editorials
Newsletters
Thought Leaders
SEE ALL BUSINESS
Consumer Issues
Corporate
Economy & Governance
Infrastructure
Industries
Personal Finance
Stocks & Banking
SEE ALL ENVIRONMENT
Climate Change
Disasters in the Philippines
Nature
Pollution
SEE ALL SCIENCE
Discoveries & Inventions
Earth & Space
Life & Health
Society & Culture
SEE ALL WORLD
Africa
Asia Pacific
Bahasa Indonesia
Europe
Global Affairs
Latin America
Middle East
South & Central Asia
US & Canada
SEE ALL BRANDRAP
Announcements
CheckThisOut
Tech and Innovation
First Look
Rappler Eats
Travel and Food
Health, Beauty, and Wellness
Home and Parenting
Lifestyle and Entertainment
Rappler Reads
Finance and Industries
Profiles and Advocacies
Data stories
SEE ALL SPECIAL COVERAGES
SARA DUTERTE IMPEACHMENT
PHILIPPINE ELECTIONS
Flood Control in the Philippines
Exclusive Content
Exclusive Events
Be a Member
#FactsFirst PH
#CourageON: No Lockdown on Rights
#Atin Ang Pilipinas
#Make Manila Liveable
ABKD Network
Amateur Media Association of Philippine Scouts
Baguio Chronicle
Break the Fake
DAKILA
Foundation for Media Alternatives (FMA)
Kalikasan
Legal Network for Truthful Elections.
Mountain Beacon
Now You Know PH
Pitik Bulag
Youth Force Philippines (YFPH)
Advisories
Campus Bulletin Board
Contests and Awards
Events
Exam results
Government job openings
Scholarships
Trainings and Workshops
Topic Directory
Trending
Sara Duterte impeachment
Philippines-China relations
US-Israel war on Iran
Middle East crisis impact
artificial intelligence
West Philippine Sea
China
Duterte Fact Checks
ASEAN
cybersecurity
overseas Filipinos
Senate of the Philippines
United States
Corruption in the Philippines
SEE ALL OF ABOUT RAPPLER
Team
Policies
Awards and recognition
Special Projects
News & updates
Guest
Register
Sign in
Support
Search
RAPPLER
Support
Login
Rappler+
Philippine elections
Trillanes running for VP, Magdalo group backs Poe
Oct 3, 2015 6:07 PM PHT
Rappler.com
WHY THIS MATTERS
Senator Antonio Trillanes IV has officially announced his candidacy for the vice presidency in the upcoming national elections, supported by the Magdalo group.
The Magdalo group also endorsed Senator Grace Poe for the presidency, highlighting her qualities as an ideal leader.
Both Trillanes and Poe emphasized the importance of integrity, transparency, and a commitment to fighting corruption in government.
This is AI-generated and may have errors. For context, always refer to the full article. Report issues
here
.
(UPDATED) In a short video message, Senator Grace Poe says in Filipino, 'It is a privilege for me to have you fighting with me to achieve continuous change and have a genuine government'
MANILA, Philippines (UPDATED) –
Senator Antonio Trillanes IV, whose term is ending in 2019, formally announced his bid for the vice presidency in the 2016 national polls.
Several months after he first confirmed his plans for the elections, Trillanes officially declared his candidacy in a brief speech before 2,000 members of the Magdalo group who attended the meeting on Saturday, October 3.
“Sa inyo pong pasya ako po ay tatakbo bilang bise-presidente ng bansa sa darating na halalan,”
the young senator told his Magdalo colleagues who gathered late afternoon at the Amoranto Sports Complex in Quezon City.
(Through your [Magdalo group’s] decision, I will run as vice-president of the country in the upcoming elections.)
“Ito ay isang malaking hamon hindi lang para sa akin kundi para sa ating organisasyon dahil ito ay isang malaking pagkakataon na palawakin ang ating paninilbihan sa ating bayan.”
(This is a big challenge not only for me but for our organization because this is a huge opportunity to widen the scope of our service to our country.)
Trillanes will be running as an independent candidate.
Since other members of his political affiliate, the Nacionalista Party, are also eyeing the same post, the party said it would let their members decide whom to vote.
The Magdalo group, as in the past 2007 and 2013 elections, will back Trillanes’ vice-presidential bid.
Support for Grace Poe
The group also expressed its support for presidential candidate Senator Grace Poe.
After his brief speech, Senator Trillanes read Magdalo’s formal endorsement of Poe, while members who were holding signages that read “Poe-Trillanes” listened intently.
According to the Magdalo group’s Resolution No. 001, they are supporting
Senator Grace Poe
because she embodies the characteristics of an ideal president.
The next Philippine president “should be, first and foremost, intrinsically good as a person to guarantee the purity of intent in all actions and policies,” Trillanes said, reading the resolution.
The group also believes the next president should “have a clear vision,” “possess requisite leadership skills and competence to actualize the vision,” and ” embody the people’s aspiration to challenge the status quo.”
Filling in for his mother, Poe’s eldest son Brian Poe-Llamanzares accepted the group’s support.
“Nagpapaslamat ako at ang aking ina,”
Llamanzares said. (My mother and I are grateful [for your support].)
“Ang pangarap ng partido niyo na maging mas maging progresibo ang Inang Bayan, makakamit natin ito sa tatlong paraan – karangalan sa buong bansa, kasama ang lahat sa pag-unlad at dapat taglay ang integridad sa pamahalaan,”
Llamanzares added.
(Your party’s dream to make our Mother Nation more progressive can be achieved in 3 ways – honor for the whole country, inclusive development and integrity in government.)
“Kasama niyo po ako sa inyong patuloy na pakikipaglaban sa kurapsyon at sa pagsusulong ng transparency sa ating gobyerno,”
Poe said in a short video message to the group.
(We are one in our continued fight against corruption and pushing for transparency in our government.)
Poe, who is running alongside Senator Francis Escudero, also said,
“Isa pong karangalan ang magkaroon ng katulad niyo na
nakikipaglaban kasama ko para tuluyan na nating makamit ang tuluyang pagbabago at tunay na gobyerno.”
(It is a privilege for me to have you fighting with me to achieve continuous change and have a genuine government.)
Who is Trillanes?
First elected during the 2007 midterm elections, Trillanes was best known as the senator who campaigned and won – with 11 million national votes – behind bars.
He was detained for rebellion charges against then president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
The formal Navy lieutenant, together with 300 junior officers, staged a mutiny at the Oakwood Premiere in Makati City in 2003 to fight alleged corruption within the Arroyo administration.
Incarcerated, Trillanes campaigned through supporters – families, friends and fellow anti-Arroyo groups – including the Genuine Opposition, where he was a guest candidate. (READ:
Newsbreak: What a coup!
)
Although he was elected the 11th senator after garnering more than a quarter (26%) of the national votes, he remained jailed until newly-elected President Benigno Aquino III granted him and other mutineers amnesty in January 2011.
He ran for re-election in 2013, under the administration party, and won with 13.9 million votes.
During his term, Trillanes had 56 bills passed into law. Among the noteworthy laws he principally authored were the New AFP Modernization Act, Anti-Bullying Law, and the Gun Control Act.
He also played a major role in the Senate probe on the allegedly
overpriced Makati Parking Building
, which created tension between him and presidential candidate Vice-President Jejomar Binay.
The Senate investigations on various corruption cases against the Vice President have been a huge dent in the Binay presidential campaign.
In a radio interview with
dzMM
on Saturday, October 3, Trillanes again hit Binay.
“I believe in the Filipino people. Iba na po ngayon, nakikita na po nila – hindi na puwedeng bolahin ang mga kababayan natin kaya hindi po mangyayari ‘yan. He won’t be president of this country,”
Trillanes said.
(I believe in the Filipino people. Times have changed, people now see – Filipinos can no longer be fooled easily that’s why it won’t happen. He won’t be president of this country.) –
Rappler.com
Share in Chat
Share article
Facebook
X (Twitter)
Copy Link
Copied
How does this make you feel?
Loading
Related Topics
RAPPLER
follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Viber
Join Rappler+
Know more here
Crowdfunding
Subscribe to Newsletters
Founding board
Rappler board of directors
About Us
Mission Statement
Editorial standards and guidelines
AI GUIDELINES
The Team
Topics directory
Rai chatbot
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms of Use
Community Guidelines
NPC Registration
NPC Privacy Seal
Philippine elections
Content Use Policy
