78 captures
08 Oct 2015 - 18 Feb 2026
Sep
OCT
Nov
08
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Internet Archive
These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to
fix all broken links on the web
. 

Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection:
GDELT
A daily crawl of more than 200,000 home pages of news sites, including the pages linked from those home pages. Site list provided by
The GDELT Project
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20151008085446/http://cnnphilippines.com/news/2015/10/05/bongbong-marcos-vice-president-elections-2016-the-filipino-votes.html
Home
News
Business
Metro
Entertainment
Regional
Sports
World
Lifestyle
Investigative
Videos
Traffic Center
Front Page
News
Bongbong Marcos running for vice president in 2016
By CNN Philippines Staff
Updated 01:22 AM PHT Tue, October 6, 2015
enablePagination: false
maxItemsPerPage: 10
totalITemsFound:
maxPaginationLinks: 10
maxPossiblePages:
startIndex:
endIndex:
Metro Manila (CNN Philippines)
— Sen. Ferdinand 'Bongbong' Marcos Jr. announced on Monday (October 5) that he run for the vice presidency in the 2016 elections.
"I have decided to run for Vice President in the May 2016 elections," Marcos said in a statement posted on his
website
.
The senator first entered politics when he was elected vice governor of Ilocos Norte in 1981 at the age of 23. He then became the governor of the province, serving 1983 to 1986.
This was cut short by the 1986 EDSA Revolution. Several years after his family went into exile in the United States, Marcos returned to the Philippines.
He ran as Ilocos Norte second district representative in 1992 and won a three-year term.
In 1995, he tried his luck at the Senate but lost. Three years later, he returned to his province and served as governor before going back to the halls of Congress in 2007.
In 2010, he finally landed a seat at the Senate.
Talks with Duterte, Binay
The senator, who is the son of former President Ferdinand Marcos, said that talks of teaming up with certain presidential candidates were mere speculations.
According to Marcos, he consulted with Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte, who he said promised him support.
"I too will support Mayor Duterte if and when he runs for president," Marcos said.
Related: Marcos meets with Duterte in Davao City
Marcos also revealed that he was invited to be the vice presidential candidate of United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) bet Jejomar Binay but talks did not prosper.
"There were initial talks between our supporters. But any team up with the Vice President must be rooted on a shared vision for our country, a common platform of government as well as political perspectives."
Marcos added: "Unfortunately it would be difficult for me to tame our political differences."
The announcement of Marcos came hours after Liberal Party announced the vice presidential bid of Rep. Leni Robredo.
Related: Liberal Party officially declares Roxas-Robredo tandem for 2016
Apart from Marcos and Robredo, Senators
Francis Escudero
,
Alan Peter Cayetano
and
Antonio Trillanes IV
have likewise declared their vice presidential bid.
Below is the full statement of Sen. Bongbong Marcos Jr.:
I have decided to run for Vice President in the May 2016 elections.
All these talks of teaming up with certain leading presidential candidates have been mere speculations.
I flew to Davao City on Wednesday and consulted with Mayor Rodrigo Duterte. He was gracious enough to promise me his support should I decide to run for Vice President. I too will support Mayor Duterte if and when he runs for President.
Regarding Vice President Jejomar Binay, I was invited to be his Vice-Presidential candidate. There were initial talks between our supporters. But any team up with the Vice President must be rooted on a shared vision for our country, a common platform of government as well as political perspectives.
Unfortunately it would be difficult for me to tame our political differences.
For one thing, I believe that elected officials have an obligation to our people to help change the course of our nation’s history by banishing the politics of personality which to me is one of the primary causes why our country today has become a soft state where the rich become richer, the poor become poorer, graft and corruption is endemic, the drug menace pervades, injustice is the norm and government incompetence is accepted.
Consequently, I have decided to put my political fortune in the hands of the Filipino people. I humbly ask them to judge whether or not I am worthy of their trust to be Vice President on the strength of my performance as a public servant in the last 26 years: first as former Vice Governor and Governor of Ilocos Norte, then as Representative of the 2nd District of Ilocos Norte and, finally, as Senator of the country.
Thank you and may God bless us all.
Advertisement
POST A COMMENT
enablePagination: false
maxItemsPerPage: 10
totalITemsFound:
maxPaginationLinks: 10
maxPossiblePages:
startIndex:
endIndex:
Latest from this section
After 2016 elections: Who’s brave enough to lose a government post?
Roxas tops U.P. frat's mock elections
Robredo denies saying dance at LP event was okay
PNP eyes link between arrested kidnappers, Samal abduction
Elderly Filipino Week: SSS hosts forum for senior citizens
'BINGO': Binay confident with Honasan as running mate
From around the web
Apple iPhone sales top expectations
80
0
International Edition
U.S.
International
Indonesia
© 2015 Nine Media Corp. CNN name, logo and all associated elements ™ and © 2015 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, Inc., displayed with permission.
About us
Contact us
Join our team
