16 captures
15 Jun 2015 - 15 Jul 2025
May
JUN
Jul
15
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Internet Archive
These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to
fix all broken links on the web
. 

Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection:
Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to
rid the web of broken links
.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150615234654/http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2015/06/13/1465293/mar-gets-noys-praise-still-no-endorsement
Skip to main content
Main menu
The Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
philstar.com
Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community
Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Tue | 06/16/2015 07:31am |
Forex: $1:45.200
Search form
Search
Follow Us:
Follow @PhilstarNews
Secondary menu
Home
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
Secondary sub-menu
Disputed Seas
Pork Barrel Scam
Bill Tracker
Election 2016
Earthquake Reports
Headlines Skinning Left, pagematch: , sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Mar gets Noy’s praise but still no endorsement
(The Philippine Star)
|
Updated June 13, 2015 - 12:00am
Interior and Local Government Secretary Manuel Roxas II
ILOILO CITY, Philippines – There was praise but still no endorsement from President Aquino yesterday for his party’s presumptive standard bearer in 2016.
In leading the 117th Independence Day celebration here, President Aquino managed to squeeze in kind words for the work of Interior and Local Government Secretary Manuel Roxas II.
Aquino, who chairs the ruling Liberal Party, started out talking about the good governance on which his five-year administration has been anchored. He then credited Roxas, his former runningmate, with the executive order creating a single Negros Island region.
“When Secretary Mar Roxas put forward this suggestion and after all the necessary consultations were undertaken, I immediately signed it,” Aquino said.
Roxas is a native of nearby Capiz, a two-and-half-hour drive away.
Negros used to be divided into two provinces – oriental and occidental.
Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
“Like in the past, we know that whenever we task Mar Roxas to lead a project or program, you can expect that the initiative will succeed,” he said.
Aquino made the pronouncements two days after meeting neophyte Sen. Grace Poe last Wednesday, where they discussed next year’s presidential elections.
The Chief Executive said this was part of his consultations with political leaders.
It was the second time he talked to the daughter of the late actor Fernando Poe Jr.
Aquino’s statement was also issued a day after he turned down Vice President Jejomar Binay’s wish to be endorsed when he runs for president next year.
Aquino said he could not offer Binay anything except the conduct of clean and honest elections. –
Delon Porcalla, Jennifer Rendon
Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Click here to join the discussion
Follow Us:
Follow @PhilstarNews
More Headlines
US rebalance may be temporary, says source
Bongbong seeks details of Japan-Philippines defense pact
‘No turning back on peace’
SC to tackle petition vs BBL today
Senate OKs Philippine sea lanes bill on second reading
Government to lawmakers: Move on with BBL
Pinoys in Korea still MERS-free – DOLE
Some LP lawmakers want Poe as standard bearer
Monsoons may start this weekend
Junjun: Sereno, 2 justices should inhibit from case
Sections
Home
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
Feedback
View the discussion thread.
LATEST NEWS
TRENDING
Poland names 4 new ministers amid eavesdropping scandal
June 16, 2015 - 7:09am
Turkey's main opposition: Erdogan must stop 'meddling'
June 16, 2015 - 6:23am
ECB leader says up to Greece to act on bailout now
June 16, 2015 - 5:00am
Amnesty urges world to take more responsibility for refugees
June 16, 2015 - 4:26am
Saudi Arabia opens $585B stock market to foreign investors
June 16, 2015 - 3:31am
View more »
Headines ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Headlines ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
Healines Skinning Right, pagematch: , sectionmatch: 1
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
Subscribe to Newspaper
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Member Agreement
Copyright Notice
6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
For advertising concerns: email
advertising@philstar.com
For marketing concerns: email
marketing@philstar.com
the philippine star
|
pilipino star ngayon
|
the freeman
|
pang-masa
|
banat
Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
