20 captures
29 Sep 2015 - 03 Dec 2024
Feb
MAR
Apr
26
2015
2016
2017
success
fail
About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization:
Alexa Crawls
Starting in 1996,
Alexa Internet
has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the
Wayback Machine
after an embargo period.
Collection:
Alexa Crawls
Starting in 1996,
Alexa Internet
has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the
Wayback Machine
after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20160326023615/http://www.sunstar.com.ph:80/manila/local-news/2015/09/28/nograles-declares-support-dutertes-presidential-bid-432787
Skip to main content
Archive
Webcast
E-paper
Videos
Jobs
Multimedia
Blogs
Yearbook
Home
Local News
Business
Opinion
Sports
Feature
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Home
/
Manila
/
Local News
/
Nograles declares support for Duterte's presidential bid
Nograles declares support for Duterte's presidential bid
Time to read
1 minute
Share
Print
a-
a+
Read so far
Nograles declares support for Duterte's presidential bid
Monday, September 28, 2015
By
John Carlo Cahinhinan
FORMER House Speaker Prospero Nograles said Monday that he will support Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte if ever he decides to run for president in 2016.
Duterte and Nograles are rivals in the local politics in Davao City, but the latter said he is willing to set aside rivalry for the sake of the country.
"He will be supported by Davaoeños. I am a Davaoeño," Nograles said.
Nograles admitted that he was planning to support the candidacy of another presidential candidate, but if ever Duterte decides to contest the presidency in 2016, he will go all out for the Davao City mayor.
"It is considered a sin in a locality not to support somebody who would represent the area in national elections," Nograles said.
For years, Duterte and Nograles were each other's bitter rivals in the local politics in Davao City. Nograles attempted to wrestle the mayoral post from Duterte in the past two elections but failed.
Duterte, who earlier announced that he will not run for president, said on Sunday that he needed one final "soul searching" before he will make a decision whether he will join the 2016 presidential race.
A source told Sun.Star on Monday that Duterte and Senator Alan Peter Cayetano will simultaneously announce their bids for president and vice president, respectively, "anytime from today until the first week of October."
"Many Mindanao leaders, particularly those based in Davao, knew it was just a gimmick that Digong (Duterte) usually resorts, maybe to promote his candidacy," the source said.
Thousands of Duterte supporters showed up in a rally at the Quirino Grandstand in Manila last Saturday to convince Duterte to run for the highest post in 2016.
(Sunnex)
DISCLAIMER:
Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates. Sun.Star reserves the right to delete, reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted.
Forum rules:
Do not use obscenity.  Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic.  Do not veer away from the discussion.  Be coherent and respectful. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
More from Manila Local News
Metro Manila sizzles at 35.4°C on Thursday
Palace asks Filipinos in Belgium to be vigilant
P700M released for informal settlers' housing units
US Embassy close on Maundy Thursday, Good Friday
De Lima twits Duterte: Present better plans
Roxas may use tobacco excise tax to aid local farmers if elected
Marcos: Peace process ‘best deterrent’ to stop Isis entry
POEA warns anew vs illegal recruiters
Nasa launches first PH satellite Diwata-1 to space
DOTC secretary assures NAIA terminals are safe
Most Commented
Popular
‘Baho na nga style,’ Duterte tells Romualdos
Local News
North Korea ready to attack Seoul Government buildings
News
15 penitents 'crucified' in Pampanga on Good Friday
Local News
Follow us
Region
Bacolod
Baguio
Cagayan de Oro
Cebu
Davao
Dumaguete
Iloilo
Manila
Pampanga
Pangasinan
Tacloban
Zamboanga
Sections
Local News
Business
Opinion
Sports
Lifestyle
Feature
Entertainment
All rights reserved. Sun.Star Publishing, Inc.
Home
Letter to the Editor
Public & Standards Editor
Advertise with us
About Us
Contact Us
Sitemap
