Open navigation
Philippine News
RAPPLER
Close menu
Latest news
Video
Communities
Philippines
Investigative
Inside Track
Fact Check
People
Voices
Business
Technology and Platforms
Environment
Weather
Science
World
BrandRap
Special coverages
Rappler+ Exclusives
Subscribe to Newsletters
RappLearn
MovePH
Movements & Partners
Bulletin Board
Topics
Rai chatbot
About Rappler
SEE ALL VIDEOS
Watch NOW | Live
Top 5 News Today
Top 5 News This Week
Rappler Recap
Rappler Talk
Rappler Live Jam
Documentaries
Video explainers
In The Public Square
Hold The Line
Hindi Ito Marites
World View
Order In The Court
The Explainer
Sex and Sensibilities
Be The Good
Homestretch
Rappler Presents HIPE Stories
The Green Report
SEE ALL PHILIPPINES
Philippine News
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Overseas Filipinos
SEE ALL INVESTIGATIVE
Data and Documents
Explainers
Fast Facts
In-depth
Podcasts and Videos
SEE ALL PEOPLE
Actors
Artists
Athletes
Crimes
Human Interest
Newsmakers
Obituary
Profiles
SEE ALL VOICES
Editorials
Newsletters
Thought Leaders
SEE ALL BUSINESS
Consumer Issues
Corporate
Economy & Governance
Infrastructure
Industries
Personal Finance
Stocks & Banking
SEE ALL ENVIRONMENT
Climate Change
Disasters in the Philippines
Nature
Pollution
SEE ALL SCIENCE
Discoveries & Inventions
Earth & Space
Life & Health
Society & Culture
SEE ALL WORLD
Africa
Asia Pacific
Bahasa Indonesia
Europe
Global Affairs
Latin America
Middle East
South & Central Asia
US & Canada
SEE ALL BRANDRAP
Announcements
CheckThisOut
Tech and Innovation
First Look
Rappler Eats
Travel and Food
Health, Beauty, and Wellness
Home and Parenting
Lifestyle and Entertainment
Rappler Reads
Finance and Industries
Profiles and Advocacies
Data stories
SEE ALL SPECIAL COVERAGES
SARA DUTERTE IMPEACHMENT
PHILIPPINE ELECTIONS
Flood Control in the Philippines
Exclusive Content
Exclusive Events
Be a Member
#FactsFirst PH
#CourageON: No Lockdown on Rights
#Atin Ang Pilipinas
#Make Manila Liveable
ABKD Network
Amateur Media Association of Philippine Scouts
Baguio Chronicle
Break the Fake
DAKILA
Foundation for Media Alternatives (FMA)
Kalikasan
Legal Network for Truthful Elections.
Mountain Beacon
Now You Know PH
Pitik Bulag
Youth Force Philippines (YFPH)
Advisories
Campus Bulletin Board
Contests and Awards
Events
Exam results
Government job openings
Scholarships
Trainings and Workshops
Topic Directory
Trending
Sara Duterte impeachment
Philippines-China relations
US-Israel war on Iran
Middle East crisis impact
artificial intelligence
West Philippine Sea
China
Duterte Fact Checks
ASEAN
cybersecurity
overseas Filipinos
Senate of the Philippines
United States
Corruption in the Philippines
SEE ALL OF ABOUT RAPPLER
Team
Policies
Awards and recognition
Special Projects
News & updates
Guest
Register
Sign in
Support
Search
RAPPLER
Support
Login
Rappler+
Philippine News
From cakes to buildings, Binays ‘overprice, chop-chop’
Aug 20, 2014 12:22 PM PHT
Ayee Macaraig
WHY THIS MATTERS
A Senate investigation is examining allegations of overpricing by the Binay family in Makati, including claims related to a birthday cake presented as evidence.
Lawyer Renato Bondal accused Vice President Jejomar Binay and his son of inflating costs for city projects and services, suggesting a broader pattern of corruption.
Some senators support the inclusion of the cake issue in the investigation, while others caution against politicizing the inquiry.
This is AI-generated and may have errors. For context, always refer to the full article. Report issues
here
.
Some senators question the relevance of the Makati government's  'birthday cake' issue in its hearings on the controversial building, though at least one senator believes it's a valid point
MANILA, Philippines – A Senate blue ribbon committee investigation included the presentation of a Red Ribbon cake which a lawyer brought out as alleged proof of the “thievery” of the Binay dynasty in Makati.
At a Senate hearing on Wednesday, August 20, lawyer Renato Bondal accused Vice President Jejomar Binay and his son, Makati Mayor Jejomar Erwin “Junjun” Binay Jr, of grossly overpricing not just a supposed “parking building” but other buildings of the city government, and even the birthday cakes Makati gives to senior citizens.
The Senate hearing on the controversial Makati City Hall Building 2 took a different twist when Bondal presented assorted cakes to argue how the Binays allegedly overprice facilities and services and hide the actual price from citizens like himself.
“Ito ang cake galing sa
Red Ribbon, P570 ($13*).
Ito,
Goldilocks, P390 ($8.90)
. Sa Makati, mahigit
P1,000 ($22.82).
Wala sa Makati ang may alam [kung] magkano ba talaga ito
,” Bondal told senators.
(This is the cake from Red Ribbon worth P570. From Goldilocks it’s P390. In Makati, it’s over P1,000.)
Senator Aquilino “Koko” Pimentel III, who is presiding over the investigation, noted that the allegation on the overpriced cakes was not included in the agenda stated in a Senate resolution, along with other buildings Bondal pointed out in his Powerpoint presentation.
“Let’s skip the cake,” Pimentel said.
Cake issue, valid?
Yet Senator Antonio Trillanes IV of the Nacionalista Party (NP), who asked follow-up questions during Bondal’s presentation, responded that the allegedly overpriced cakes were a valid point of investigation.
“Bondal is just proving his point that in Makati,
hindi lang
building
ang pinagkakakitaan kundi pati ang
cake (It’s not just buildings they earn from but even cakes).”
In his opening statement, Bondal used colorful language to accuse the Vice President, his son, and their allies in the city council of overpricing the alleged parking building by P2 billion ($45.65 million).
“
Mahigit
P2 billion
ang naging bukol ng taumbayan ng Makati sa pinagawa nilang building mula 2007 hanggang 2013
,” Bondal said. “
Kailangang malaman ng bansa ang sistema ng pagnanakaw ng mga Binay sa Makati. Ito ang sasapitin ng bansa ‘pag naging pangulo si Vice President Binay.”
“Sila lang ang gumanda ang buhay. Kami, hindi.”
(The building was overpriced by P2 billion – the amount from the people of Makati that they used for the building from 2007 to 2013. The nation must know the Binays’ system of stealing in Makati. This is what the country will have to suffer if Vice President Binay wins as president. It’s only his family whose lives are improving, not ours.)
Bondal also accused the Binays of violating the Government Procurement Act by splitting the project into 5 contracts. He called Makati “the chop-chop capital of the Philippines.”
“Tsina-
chop-chop
ng mga Binay ang kontrata. Walang bini-
bidding
na tunay na halaga. Ang pinakahalaga malalaman lang ‘pag tapos na. Mahigpit na ipinagbabawal ang pag-split ng contract, ‘di pwede chop-chopin. Lahat ng building nadaan sa chop-chop-utang.”
(The Binays are splitting the contracts. There is really no bidding with a true value. We will only know the true value when the project is finished. Splitting contracts is strictly prohibited. You cannot chop it. All buildings are “chopped.”)
The Senate blue ribbon committee is investigating the building allegedly overpriced by at least P1.9 billion ($43 million). The Senate resolution of Trillanes is based on the
plunder and graft complaint
Bondal and Nicolas “Ching” Enciso VI filed against the Binays before the Ombudsman.
Initially a candidate of the NP who eventually ran as an independent in 2013, Bondal ran against Mayor Binay in the mayoral polls but lost.
Vice President Binay is running for president in 2016, and is leading presidential surveys. NP senators Trillanes and Alan Peter Cayetano also expressed interest for higher office.
Other buildings also ‘overpriced’
Beyond the building, Trillanes moved to expand the coverage of the investigation to include the cakes and other buildings Bondal claimed the Binays had overpriced.
“Itong
Makati City Hall
, ito ay
P7 billion overpriced
din.
OsMak 1, phase 2 pa lang, P2 billion na.
Ginagawa pa.
Makati Science High School
, isa pang
overpriced
,”
Bondal said.
(This Makati City Hall was also overpriced by P7 billion. The Hospital of Makati 1 was overpriced by P2 billion even if it’s still under construction. Makati Science High School was also overpriced.)
Trillanes moved to summon the documents on the other buildings. Mayor Binay promised to submit the files.
Opposition senators JV Ejercito, Vicente Sotto III and even Senate President Franklin Drilon requested Bondal to “stick to the facts” and to be careful in his word choice.
“If possible, please don’t use descriptive words. Let’s admit this is a politically charged inquiry. People might say we are politicking here,” Drilon said.
Yet Trillanes argued that Bondal must be given “latitude.” “He’s indignant because they are the ones who felt, saw this. They are from Makati. This is the first time they air out their sentiments.”
Tan: No COA clearance yet
In his opening statement, Mayor Binay reiterated his previous argument that data from the National Statistics Office (NSO) are not sufficient basis to compare the prices of the Makati building to other high-rise buildings in the city like the Shang Grand Tower and The Residences at Greenbelt.
He too went off topic, going into the “reforms” his father instituted as mayor that led to various awards for the city government.
“Makati sustained investor confidence because of reforms we put in place since time of my father. My father cut down the time for approving licenses. This makes our award significant considering baseless accusations against us.”
Binay again cited a Commission on Audit (COA) memorandum saying the price of the building was “reasonable.”
Yet COA chairperson Grace Pulido-Tan clarified that the memo was just an “internal communication” that is still under review.
“We do not give clearances like that,” Tan said.
Vice President Binay had earlier defended the construction of the building, which began while he was Makati mayor in 2007, and compared the building allegedly worth P1.56 billion ($36.05 million) with the construction of a house and the printing of T-shirts. (READ:
Binay: Building just ‘high quality,’ not overpriced
)
– Rappler.com
*$1 = P43.8
Related stories:
Mayor Binay concedes ‘possible’ Makati building overpriced
COA chief: No clearance for Makati building
Trillanes: Probe Binays for ‘outrageous overpricing’
Nancy Binay to critics: Go ahead, impeach my dad
Binay: Building just ‘high quality,’ not overpriced
Plunder case filed vs VP Binay, Makati officials
Complainants: Binay building overpriced by higher amount
Binays to Trillanes: Probe Cayetano, Iloilo too
Share in Chat
Share article
Facebook
X (Twitter)
Copy Link
Copied
How does this make you feel?
Loading
Related Topics
RAPPLER
follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Viber
Join Rappler+
Know more here
Crowdfunding
Subscribe to Newsletters
Founding board
Rappler board of directors
About Us
Mission Statement
Editorial standards and guidelines
AI GUIDELINES
The Team
Topics directory
Rai chatbot
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms of Use
Community Guidelines
NPC Registration
NPC Privacy Seal
Philippine elections
Content Use Policy
