BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Your account
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
More menu
More menu
Search BBC
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Close menu
BBC News
Menu
Home
Climate
World
Asia
UK
Business
Tech
Science
Entertainment & Arts
Health
More
In Pictures
BBC Verify
Newsbeat
Asia
China
India
Philippines election: Maverick Rodrigo Duterte wins presidency
Published
10 May 2016
Share
close panel
Share page
Copy link
About sharing
To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.
This video can not be played
Figure caption,
Rodrigo Duterte has had tough words for drug-pushers and the Pope alike
Maverick anti-crime candidate Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte has won the Philippine presidential elections, following the withdrawal of his opponents.
Although the official result has not yet been declared, main rival Mar Roxas admitted defeat after polls gave Mr Duterte an unassailable lead.
Mr Duterte said he accepted the mandate with "extreme humility".
The 71-year-old stirred controversy during campaigning with his incendiary comments.
He has credited his success to his tough stance on law and order.
His record as the crime-crushing mayor of the southern town of Davao, once notorious for its lawlessness, earned him the moniker The Punisher and resonated with voters.
"Duterte Harry" in quotes
The Philippines elects its first transgender politician
Populism, celebrity and ugly realities in the Philippines
Who were the candidates in the Philippines' elections?
Other driving issues of the election campaign were pervasive corruption, as well as the poverty and inequality experienced by many Filipinos despite economic growth under outgoing President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino.
What next for Duterte: Analysis by Jonathan Head, BBC News, Manila
Rodrigo Duterte, a man dubbed by his rivals as an executioner who would bring terror to the Philippines, has won the presidency by a clear margin, polling nearly twice as many votes as his nearest rivals.
But what is less clear is what he will do with the job. His blunt promise to sweep away criminals and corrupt officials won him the backing of millions of Filipinos weary of ineffective governments.
But he has so far offered few policy details. A spokesman has already pledged a radical overhaul of the political system. Human rights groups have warned he may repeat what happened in the southern city of Davao, where as mayor he is accused of allowing death squads to murder hundreds of alleged criminals.
Mr Duterte has a formidable task in a country still hampered by poverty and poor infrastructure - just meeting the lofty expectations he raised during his campaign will be hard enough.
Election officials have said there was a record turnout at polling stations, with more than 81% of the 54 million registered voters casting a ballot. Senators and about 18,000 local officials including mayors are also being elected.
The
PPCRV (Parish Pastoral Council for Responsible Voting)
,
external
poll monitor said that with 90% of the presidential ballots counted, Mr Duterte had more than 14.8m votes - about 39%.  The PPCRV is accredited by the election commission to monitor counting but its reporting does not represent an official tally.
Mr Roxas, a former interior minister and Mr Duterte's closest rival, had 8.6 million votes.
To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.
This video can not be played
Figure caption,
Rodrigo Duterte has a persuasive story to tell, Jonathan Head reports
As the extent of his lead became clear, Mr Duterte told AFP news agency: "It's with humility, extreme humility, that I accept this, the mandate of the people."
Mr Roxas accepted his rival's win. "There are many tears in the room. Let me tell you this is not a time for tears.  For our country, we have had a peaceful, successful transfer of power."
Another key rival, Senator Grace Poe, was the first to concede defeat, promising to "co-operate with the healing process" after a turbulent campaign.
In the election to be vice-president, Leni Robredo, a social activist, is currently slightly ahead of  Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos, the son of a former dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
The appeal of Duterte: Analysis by Karishma Vaswani, Asia business correspondent
The statistics are stark, and bleak. Experts say anywhere between 40% and 80% of Philippine legislators are connected to political dynasties with vested interests. A handful of the families control almost all of the country's wealth.
And perhaps the bleakest statistic of all: 25% of the population lives under the poverty line - a figure that has not changed much in two decades.
So it shouldn't come as a surprise then that Filipinos have chosen Mr Duterte's crime-busting, tough-talking, action-oriented ways over the current administration's candidate Manuel Roxas.
More on this from Karishma
Mr Aquino is standing down as the constitution limits presidents to one six-year term.  As Mr Duterte rose in opinion polls ahead of voting, Mr Aquino had tried to unite other candidates against him, warning his election could mean a return to dictatorship for the Philippines.
Image source,
AP
Image caption,
Supporters of Mar Roxas commiserated as he conceded defeat
Mr Duterte has made
many controversial statements
during his campaign, saying that he would massacre criminals and drug-users, joking about the rape of an Australian missionary and saying he would dissolve congress if it didn't agree with him.
He has also given forthright opinions on the Philippines' territorial dispute with China in the South China Sea, saying he would sail to disputed islands and plant the Philippine flag there.
The Philippines has taken one of its claims to a court of arbitration at the Hague.  On Monday, he said he would seek multilateral talks over the issue, to include the US and Japan.
Duterte: From 'Punisher' to president
Born in 1945 into a political family but with a more modest background than many Philippine politicians.
Married twice but now single, he says he has several girlfriends.
A lawyer, he became vice-mayor of Davao in 1986 and mayor in 1988. He has also previously held a seat in congress.
Built a reputation fighting crime, militancy and corruption. He has promised to continue his tough stance as president, but has offered few specific policies.
Well known for  incendiary comments, such as saying he would kill thousands of criminals without trial.
More on this story
Tough words on drug-pushers and Pope. Video, 00:01:09
Tough words on drug-pushers and Pope
Published
31 May 2016
1:09
The Philippines elects its first transgender politician
Published
10 May 2016
Personalities and polls
Published
8 May 2016
Who will lead the Philippines?
Published
29 April 2016
What is the South China Sea dispute?
Published
7 July 2023
The IS threat in South East Asia
Published
6 April 2016
Philippines country profile
Published
5 July 2023
The video playlist
Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC
Previous
Next
0:47
OpenAI says its AI went rogue and launched a cyber-attack. 00:00:47, play video
OpenAI says its AI went rogue and launched a cyber-attack
1:35
Rise in women in their 20s developing Type 2 diabetes. 00:01:35, play video
Rise in women in their 20s developing Type 2 diabetes
0:58
Images in D4vd hearing are 'worst nightmare' for girl's family. 00:00:58, play video
Images in D4vd hearing are 'worst nightmare' for girl's family
1:15
How will Burnham fund £2 bus fare cap? 00:01:15, play video
How will Burnham fund £2 bus fare cap?
2:28
'My flat was turned into a brothel' 00:02:28, play video
'My flat was turned into a brothel'
1:02
India's 'cockroach' protests continue despite heavy rain. 00:01:02, play video
India's 'cockroach' protests continue despite heavy rain
0:50
Will there be another heatwave? 00:00:50, play video
Will there be another heatwave?
0:47
Mixed reviews as Japan urges men to wear shorts to work. 00:00:47, play video
Mixed reviews as Japan urges men to wear shorts to work
1:32
How northern is PM Andy Burnham's new cabinet? 00:01:32, play video
How northern is PM Andy Burnham's new cabinet?
1:20
Should pavement parking be banned? 00:01:20, play video
Should pavement parking be banned?
1:20
Why falling for someone too quickly can be a red flag. 00:01:20, play video
Why falling for someone too quickly can be a red flag
0:41
Try hot honey salmon for your evening meal. 00:00:41, play video
Try hot honey salmon for your evening meal
0:17
Confessing your first celeb crush to your dad. 00:00:17, play video
Confessing your first celeb crush to your dad
0:31
Russian warship asked to 'clarify its intentions' off UK coast. 00:00:31, play video
Russian warship asked to 'clarify its intentions' off UK coast
0:59
Widdecombe murder accused appears in court. 00:00:59, play video
Widdecombe murder accused appears in court
0:59
Will scrapping digital ID pay for a VAT cut? 00:00:59, play video
Will scrapping digital ID pay for a VAT cut?
0:52
Should there have been a general election? 00:00:52, play video
Should there have been a general election?
0:42
Uni students mistakenly told they had failed. 00:00:42, play video
Uni students mistakenly told they had failed
1:10
Who is the UK's new chancellor? 00:01:10, play video
Who is the UK's new chancellor?
0:48
Souness and Seaman reflect on Keegan. 00:00:48, play video
Souness and Seaman reflect on Keegan
Top stories
PC Harper's widow criticises early prisoner release plan as Burnham to review scheme
Published
1 hour ago
Live
.
US to announce deal allowing Saudi Arabia to develop nuclear power
5314 viewing
5.3k viewing
Most bus fares in England to be capped at £2 from January
Published
4 hours ago
More to explore
Prince George enjoys coastal fun in new video as he becomes a teenager
'We just need a bed': Baby with 'days to live' can't access lifesaving treatment
I've got a motorway in my garden - it's my shelter in hot weather
Great Apes kiss and cuddle to keep the peace, says study
'Play music loud to remember Ozzy' says Sharon on first anniversary of his death
The borough where families are slowly disappearing
Farm's delight after six white owlets found nesting
'I make the smells that scare you at theme parks'
Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter
Elsewhere on the BBC
Christopher Nolan's epic biopic starring Cillian Murphy
Mary Beard and Martin Scorsese explore the Godfather of Athens
A twisted true tale of power, perception and control
Inside Italy's child obesity epidemic
Most read
1
Prince George enjoys coastal fun in new video as he becomes a teenager
2
Wreckage of Pan Am plane that shaped aviation safety found 74 years on
3
OpenAI says its AI went rogue and launched 'unprecedented' cyber-attack
4
Seized maternity notes not given to Letby defence for trial
5
PC Harper's widow criticises early prisoner release plan as Burnham to review scheme
6
Mid-air 10-person brawl halts easyJet   flight
7
The borough where families are slowly disappearing
8
Ukrainian drones hit Russian online giant retailer Wildberries for second time
9
Ex-Southern Water boss among four charged over alleged plan to manipulate water tests
10
Modelling scout linked to Epstein found dead in Paris
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
BBC emails for you
Advertise with us
Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Read about our approach to external linking.
