Open navigation
Philippine News
RAPPLER
Close menu
Latest news
Video
Communities
Philippines
Investigative
Inside Track
Fact Check
People
Voices
Business
Technology and Platforms
Environment
Weather
Science
World
BrandRap
Special coverages
Rappler+ Exclusives
Subscribe to Newsletters
RappLearn
MovePH
Movements & Partners
Bulletin Board
Topics
Rai chatbot
About Rappler
SEE ALL VIDEOS
Watch NOW | Live
Top 5 News Today
Top 5 News This Week
Rappler Recap
Rappler Talk
Rappler Live Jam
Documentaries
Video explainers
In The Public Square
Hold The Line
Hindi Ito Marites
World View
Order In The Court
The Explainer
Sex and Sensibilities
Be The Good
Homestretch
Rappler Presents HIPE Stories
The Green Report
SEE ALL PHILIPPINES
Philippine News
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Overseas Filipinos
SEE ALL INVESTIGATIVE
Data and Documents
Explainers
Fast Facts
In-depth
Podcasts and Videos
SEE ALL PEOPLE
Actors
Artists
Athletes
Crimes
Human Interest
Newsmakers
Obituary
Profiles
SEE ALL VOICES
Editorials
Newsletters
Thought Leaders
SEE ALL BUSINESS
Consumer Issues
Corporate
Economy & Governance
Infrastructure
Industries
Personal Finance
Stocks & Banking
SEE ALL ENVIRONMENT
Climate Change
Disasters in the Philippines
Nature
Pollution
SEE ALL SCIENCE
Discoveries & Inventions
Earth & Space
Life & Health
Society & Culture
SEE ALL WORLD
Africa
Asia Pacific
Bahasa Indonesia
Europe
Global Affairs
Latin America
Middle East
South & Central Asia
US & Canada
SEE ALL BRANDRAP
Announcements
CheckThisOut
Tech and Innovation
First Look
Rappler Eats
Travel and Food
Health, Beauty, and Wellness
Home and Parenting
Lifestyle and Entertainment
Rappler Reads
Finance and Industries
Profiles and Advocacies
Data stories
SEE ALL SPECIAL COVERAGES
SARA DUTERTE IMPEACHMENT
PHILIPPINE ELECTIONS
Flood Control in the Philippines
Exclusive Content
Exclusive Events
Be a Member
#FactsFirst PH
#CourageON: No Lockdown on Rights
#Atin Ang Pilipinas
#Make Manila Liveable
ABKD Network
Amateur Media Association of Philippine Scouts
Baguio Chronicle
Break the Fake
DAKILA
Foundation for Media Alternatives (FMA)
Kalikasan
Legal Network for Truthful Elections.
Mountain Beacon
Now You Know PH
Pitik Bulag
Youth Force Philippines (YFPH)
Advisories
Campus Bulletin Board
Contests and Awards
Events
Exam results
Government job openings
Scholarships
Trainings and Workshops
Topic Directory
Trending
Sara Duterte impeachment
Philippines-China relations
US-Israel war on Iran
Middle East crisis impact
artificial intelligence
West Philippine Sea
China
Duterte Fact Checks
ASEAN
cybersecurity
overseas Filipinos
Senate of the Philippines
United States
Corruption in the Philippines
SEE ALL OF ABOUT RAPPLER
Team
Policies
Awards and recognition
Special Projects
News & updates
Guest
Register
Sign in
Support
Search
RAPPLER
Support
Login
Rappler+
Philippine News
Jinggoy: I still have support, machinery for 2016
Mar 20, 2014 2:40 PM PHT
Ayee Macaraig
WHY THIS MATTERS
Senator Jinggoy Estrada expresses confidence in his support for a potential vice presidential bid in the upcoming elections, despite facing allegations related to a major corruption scandal.
He believes that his public reception remains positive, as he has continued to engage with constituents and test the waters despite the controversies surrounding him.
Estrada is open to being Vice President Jejomar Binay's running mate if offered, while also addressing criticisms from other political figures regarding his candidacy.
This is AI-generated and may have errors. For context, always refer to the full article. Report issues
here
.
'Modesty aside, I still have the support and machinery for a 2016 bid,' says Senator Jinggoy Estrada
MANILA, Philippines (UPDATED) – Senator Jinggoy Estrada believes critics cannot rule him out as a vice presidential bet in the 2016 polls despite being linked to the country’s biggest corruption scandal in recent history.
Estrada said he has yet to decide on his 2016 plans but he still has the mass support should he decide to seek higher office.
Asked if he has the support and machinery to mount a vice presidential bid, Estrada said, “Modesty aside, I think so.”
Watch here:
In a press briefing on Thursday, March 20, Estrada said he initially stopped reading newspapers and shied away from public events in Metro Manila when the pork barrel scam broke out in July 2013.
Eventually, the actor-turned-politician decided to accept invitations to visit provinces and found that “nothing changed.”
“After a few days, few months,
[sabi ko], bakit ako magkukulong sa bahay
? I have to test the waters. So
ginawa ko,
I went out of my way to go to the provinces, accept invitations, go out and [mingle] with people.
Wala naman ding nabago.
The reception of the people towards me was warmer than before so
okay lang
.” (It was okay.)
Estrada said that while he had to explain to people his alleged involvement in the
multi-billion peso pork barrel scam
, it was a “non-issue” to them and he was not “ostracized” in his visits.
Asked if this made him feel confident about 2016, he said, “Of course, definitely.”
“I am not a hypocrite to tell you I’m not affected by these issues hounding me. Of course, we will have to weigh everything. I have been making the rounds all over the country and the reception is still warm.”
Estrada
faces a plunder complaint
for allegedly funneling his pork barrel funds to fake non-governmental organizations of scam mastermind Janet Lim Napoles in exchange for P183,793,750 in kickbacks.
Watch this report below.
Yes to a possible Binay VP offer
He was initially reported to be the running mate of Vice President Jejomar Binay but observers said the scam dashed his political ambitions.
Yet Estrada said he will still run for vice president if Binay offers him to be his running mate. “Most likely.
Kung hindi, anong magagawa ko? Wala tayong magagawa.
(If not, what can I do? There is nothing I can do.)
Estrada said he will be a private citizen if Binay does not give him the offer.
The senator also lashed back at Senate Majority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano for
criticizing Binay after naming him as a potential running mate
despite his alleged involvement in the scam. Cayetano declared he wants to run for president, and got into a
heated exchange with Estrada
last week over the pork barrel scam.
Estrada said, “
Eh alam mo kaming nasa oposisyon, nasa kabilang partido, sana wala nang nakikialam sa mga taga-labas dahil ‘di naman siya kasama sa amin. Wala naman siyang pakialam sa desisyon namin, sa desisyon ni vice president. Eh ‘di tumakbo na lang siya. ‘Wag na lang niyang banggitin nang banggitin ang pangalan ni Vice
.”
(For us in the opposition, we hope no one from the outside will meddle with our plans because he’s not party of our party. He has nothing to do with our decision who will be the vice presidential candidate. He should just run for president. He should stop mentioning the name of the Vice President.)
Estrada also commented on the remarks of his half-brother Senator JV Ejercito expressing willingness to help him in the 2016 polls despite their rivalry.
“
Salamat. Salamat po
. Next question,” he retorted. (Thank you.)
Dinner with Cynthia Villar in Tuason mansion
Estrada also maintained that self-confessed bagman Ruby Tuason could not afford to buy her mansion in Dasmariñas Village, Makati, which he claimed was bought using her supposed P242 million kickbacks from the Malampaya fund scam.
He reiterated that the
so-called Malampaya mansion
cost more than the $2 million (about P90 million) that
Tuason’s lawyer said she got in insurance proceeds
from the death of her estranged husband Carlos “Butch” Tuason in 2008.
“That house is more than P100 million, more than even P200 million. Even the furniture was first class. There was a swimming pool. I’ve been there. I saw how big Mrs Tuason’s house was in Dasmariñas.”
Estrada revealed that he and another senator visited the mansion during the 2013 campaign and had dinner with Tuason. He refused to name the senator, saying he does not want to drag other people’s names. He only hinted that the lawmaker was a neophyte senator from the majority bloc.
“It was just a dinner in her house. I wasn’t able to attend the blessing of the house so she invited us for dinner.  There’s nothing wrong if we had dinner. It doesn’t mean that just because we had dinner, there were already dealings there,” Estrada said.
Watch here:
In a statement issued Thursday afternoon, Senator Cynthia Villar admitted she was the senator who had dinner with Tuason and Estrada.
“I have known Ms Ruby Tuason since she was the social secretary of former President Joseph Estrada. My husband Manny Villar was then the Speaker of the House. I had dinner with Ms Tuason and Sen Jinggoy Estrada,  but it was purely  social. She was trying to bring me closer to Sen Jinggoy since he is planning to run for a higher position,” Villar said.
Estrada added that he found out that Tuason has another “gated” property worth $500,000 in Las Vegas, which he was unable to include in his privilege speech. He said the property is under the name of Tuason’s children, and was again funded by her alleged Malampaya kickbacks.
‘Ready to rumble’
Estrada said he had no objections if the Senate blue ribbon committee will summon former National Agribusiness Corp (Nabcor) officials Rhodora Mendoza and Vic Cacal to its investigation after the two gave media statements saying he and 82 other lawmakers coursed P1.7 billion in pork barrel funds through the agency to questionable NGOs.
“I do not know Rhodora Mendoza, Cacal. I do not know them. I haven’t met them,” he said.
Estrada also echoed the
statement of Senator Francis Escudero
that TV5 anchor Erwin Tulfo and DZBB’s Carmelo del Prado Magdurulang should be invited to the hearing for allegedly receiving payoffs from Nabcor.
“According to reports, they received money from the government. Of course, that’s public funds. We should know the truth.”
Estrada said the committee can already release a report on the scam, and he will not bother giving his side. He added that he “does not care” about the committee report, and does not expect it to be fair.
“Was it fair when they conducted hearings before? Was it fair when the chairman of the blue ribbon committee already made a conclusion? Was it fair for other senators to use that forum at our own expense? You be the judge. That hearing was supposed to be in aid of legislation. It was already in aid [of the] 2016 elections.”
Estrada said he is “expecting the worst” as the Ombudsman is about to file charges against the accused before the Sandiganbayan.
“We’re ready. Ready to rumble.”
– Rappler.com
Share in Chat
Share article
Facebook
X (Twitter)
Copy Link
Copied
How does this make you feel?
Loading
Related Topics
RAPPLER
follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Viber
Join Rappler+
Know more here
Crowdfunding
Subscribe to Newsletters
Founding board
Rappler board of directors
About Us
Mission Statement
Editorial standards and guidelines
AI GUIDELINES
The Team
Topics directory
Rai chatbot
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms of Use
Community Guidelines
NPC Registration
NPC Privacy Seal
Philippine elections
Content Use Policy
