Can the Philippines Stay on Track?
Looking Back
Looking Back
Looking Ahead
Looking Ahead
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PHILIPPINES ELECTION
Can the Philippines Stay on Track?
Jeepneys ply the streets of Makati, the main business district of the Philippine capital, Manila.
This unique form of public transport was originally based on U.S. military jeeps left behind after World War II.
Under President Benigno Aquino III, the Philippines has recovered its economic credibility. As the democracy of more than 100 million people faces elections in May, the WSJ charts the Philippines’ recent progress, and asks what Mr. Aquino’s successor must do to complete the country’s transformation from the “Sick Man of Asia” into the region’s next economic star.
Looking Back
How the Philippines Lost Its Way
In 1960, the resource-rich Philippines had a higher per capita gross-domestic product than China, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea or Thailand. But decades of economic mismanagement reduced it to the poorest of these six East Asian economies by 2003.
Previous
Next
In 1960, the Philippines was ahead of many of its neighbors.
By the 1970s, it was losing ground.
Today, it is far behind.
Philippines
China
Malaysia
Indonesia
Thailand
South Korea
Economic Resurgence Under President Benigno Aquino III
Since President Benigno Aquino III took office in 2010, the Philippine economy has grown strongly, especially compared to some of its neighbors.
Philippines
China
Vietnam
Singapore
Malaysia
Indonesia
Thailand
Aquino’s Flagship Programs
Corruption Crackdown
Launched anticorruption campaign under which cases have been brought against a former president, a former chief justice and three senators.
Social Welfare
Offered $5 billion in conditional cash transfers to poor families and promoted family-planning programs opposed by Catholic groups.
Taxes
Helped clean up state finances with new revenues, including a "sin tax" on tobacco and alcohol, which raised $2.3 billion for health care.
Infrastructure
Boosted infrastructure spending through new Public Private Partnerships program to channel private capital into projects.
Education
Expanded universal education with new requirement that students remain in school for an additional two years.
Aquino’s Successes
2010
2015
GDP growth, 2010-2015
GDP per capita, 2010-2014
The Philippines received its first investment-grade rating from Fitch Ratings in 2013.
                                Since then it has received a series of further upgrades. Its latest ratings are:
BBB-
with Fitch,
Baa2
with Moody’s and
BBB
with Standard & Poor’s.
Source: staff reports
Note: In 2015, 168 countries were ranked versus 178 countries in 2010.
Aquino’s Failures
GDP growth, 2010-2015
GDP per capita, 2010-2014
2010
2015
Police said
92% of Manila neighborhoods had problems with drugs
, especially crystal methamphetamine, in early 2015.
                                And in the first half of 2015
the crime rate rose 47%
from the same period in 2014, with
murder and homicide cases up 52%
.
Sources: Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency and Philippine National Police
Two Manilas
Rapid growth has meant new opportunities for the elite, but the gap between rich and poor remains among the largest in Asia.
Your browser does not support this 360° video player.
Learn more »
Looking Ahead
On the New President’s Desk: Five Priorities
Economy
With global growth weak, a credible team of economic managers is needed to shore up confidence, while ensuring the Philippines remains attractive for investors.
Poverty
Over a fifth of Filipino families live in poverty, or on less than $3.23 a day. Job creation is seen as key, along with increased spending on health, education and social housing — without abandoning fiscal discipline.
Infrastructure
The Philippines needs to spend $127 billion on roads, airports and other infrastructure between 2010 and 2020, according to the Asian Development Bank. Analysts say the private sector will have to help.
Separatism
The Aquino administration signed a peace deal with Islamic rebels on the southern island of Mindanao. But key elements stalled in Congress, leaving the next administration to complete the process.
China
Sino-Philippine relations hit rock bottom under President Aquino over tensions in the South China Sea. The new president will need to re-engage Beijing — a major source of investment — without ceding too much ground on sovereignty.
The Presidential Candidates
The populist
Jejomar Binay
Age: 73
The current vice president and former mayor of Makati, a prosperous district of Manila, has built a sizable national campaign machine and appeals to working-class voters with promises to boost social program spending. But he has been dogged by corruption allegations, which he denies.
“This is the eve of our freedom from poverty and unemployment, inept and slow service, incompetent and insensitive government, pointless propaganda, self-righteousness, and vengeful politics and bickering.”
—At the official launch of his campaign in February
The tough guy
Rodrigo Duterte
Age: 71
The Mayor of Davao, in the southern Philippines, is known for his tough-talking style and promise to eliminate crime and corruption within three to six months. Although popular, he lacks a national political network and his law-and-order policies repel some voters who fear he will trigger a wave of national vigilantism.
“If I become president, hide. That number [of criminals killed in Davao] – one thousand – will go up to 50,000. I will have you killed. There will be fat fish in Manila Bay after I’ve thrown you in there.”
—Speaking on his weekly TV show “From the People, For the People” in May 2015
The rookie
Grace Poe
Age: 47
The first-term Senator, she benefits from the popularity of her movie-star father, the late Fernando Poe, Jr. She has pledged to increase infrastructure spending, lower taxes and incentivize foreign investment. Questions over her eligibility -- she temporarily renounced her Philippine citizenship in 2001 – slowed her campaign.
“They say that I lack experience. [But my rivals for the presidency] have protracted years already in government; the problems are still the same, but their solutions are no different. I carry less political baggage.”
—Wall Street Journal interview in January
The continuity candidate
Manuel Roxas II
Age: 58
A longtime politician who served as interior secretary and trade-and-industry secretary, among other posts, he is endorsed by President Aquino. He promises to continue Mr. Aquino’s anti-corruption campaign and extend his social programs, but has struggled to connect with some voters.
“We’ve gone from diaper to short pants. And the question for us as a nation [now is]: How do we get from short pants to long pants, and who’s the best person that can take us through the transition?”
—Speech at the Makati Business Club in March
Previous
Next
The Dangers of Bad Leadership
The decades since World War II have shown the dangers of bad leadership in the Philippines. Will history repeat itself?
Reporting and Research
Trefor Moss and Patrick Barta
Design and Development
Andrew James, David Chan Tik Wai and MinJung Kim
Video
Warangkana Chomchuen
Virtual Reality Video
Thomas Di Fonzo and Warangkana Chomchuen
Published April 18, 2016 at 2 a.m. ET
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Data Policy
Subscriber Agreement & Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices
Copyright ©
Dow Jones & Company
, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
